# Project 2: Lost in the Scroll

Here we are, after all this time I have finally made a Scrollyteller site. Before I dive deeper into it, here are a couple of links:

https://ianszymanski.github.io/Scrollyteller-Site/
https://github.com/IanSzymanski/Scrollyteller-Site

This site wouldn't be possible without Claude Code. I worked in very close collaboration to develop a sophisticated boilerplate (which caused 90% of my issues but I'll get to that later) as well as ideation on SVG concepts. What was landed on was a scalable model of svg content sections which dynamically changes in length depending on the timeline that is placed in them. This is done by calculating the timeline's duration in seconds and running a calculation to add pinned scroll length to that section. With this, I only had to focus on creating tweens inside the svg section without having to pin and unpin tweens. This process really expedited the creation process, but it didn't come without challenge. Originally, the pinned section length was determined by a manually inputed value per section. The problem is that this value was inadvertently used to calculate a gap between sections. So the longer amount of scroll time in a section, the larger the gap between them. So I made the decision to base the scroll length based off the timeline rather than an input value.

Alright, so my metaphor is very close to me. I chose the elements of a trombone as a lens to view the different elements (of what I know) about JavaScript. I did this for a few reasons: 1. I have played the instrument for almost 10 years. 2. I can find connections to music in anything. 3. I see code as a method of expression, in the same way one plays an instrument. Out of all the sections, I would say my favorite is the sheet music section, I am very proud of the animation of the music staff pulling onto the screen and the notes falling onto the staff. A pretty tough bug came with this too. Originally the svg was 1 path, and simply faded onto the viewport. But I wanted to stagger each of the lines in, so I split the paths apart. However the stagger still wouldn't visualize. Once I applied the styling to each of the lines rather than the group as a whole, the lines staggered in but the endcap wasn't aligned. Ugh. I then split up the endcap and timed it to the staggered staff lines. The result is a clean drawing animation the flows very well.

There are a good amount of accessiblity options included. Obviously there's a style picker, but there is also keyboard suport. Simply use arrow keys up and down to scroll through the experience. Page Up and Page Down skip up and down through the chapters. Speaking of chapters, there are dots on the right side of the screen that indicate what section of the story you are in. Click on a dot to skip to that point in the story. There is also a progress bar on the top of the screen to quickly see your progress.

There is always things to improve. I think that some of the svg elements are a little rough around the edges, there are a few stutters, and mobile isn't the cleanest, but overall the site is in a great state.